# CryptoClustering

# Overview

For this project, I was provided with a .csv file with data points representing the percentage price change for various cryptocurrencies, over several different spans of time. Using both the original data and Principal Component Analysis, I explored trends in this data, created visualizations of cryptocurrency trends, and compared both methods of analysis in a composite plot.

# Tools

To accomplish these tasks, I used the following libraries, included in the first cell of my code:

  -import pandas as pd
  -import hvplot.pandas
  -from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
  -from sklearn.decomposition import PCA
  -from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler

# Features

The method I used for this project would be familiar to those with basic experience in unsupervised machine learning, including using StandardScaler to normalize the original .csv data, translating the data model into an elbow curve, then using KMeans to find the data clusters and plot them.

The processing of the data was similar for the PCA data, using many of the same tools and methods. However, to find the PCA data, I used the fit_transform function from SKLearn's PCA library, then placed the transformed data into a DataFrame with three columns: PCA1, PCA2, and PCA3. The total explained variance of the three resulting principal components was 89.5 percent. These components were then provided with their respective cryptocurrency names as an index and put through the same process as the original data.

To compare the results of the original and PCA data, I created composite elbow and scatter plots, using hvplot. I used the plots I already made earlier in the code but used the '+' operator to composite them.

# Sources
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

The provided data for this project can be viewed in the directory entitled 'Resources.'

# Author

Daniel Adamson
